
Notes on DPNA Website optimization
	Calvin Miracle
	2015.10.17

Introduction
	This is a study of performance optimization on my Code Louisville
	student website. 
	
	The website is a fictional neighborhood association web site, its home page 
	comprising text, a video served on-site, a video linked from off-site, 
	several SVG logos, and 13 images linked from Lorempixel. The page uses 
	Zurb Foundation for responsiveness, Foundation Icons, and a Slick Carousel 
	image spinner. A small amount of custom JavaScript assists with media 
	responsiveness and Slick optioning.
	
	For this study, a methodology is established, metrics for optimization
	chosen, and performance measures taken before and after optimization
	tasks. A discussion follows on the effects of optimization and limitations 
	of this study.

Methodology
	Testing and optimizations to be performed on the index page only.
  Testing performed on large media displays only.	
	Firefox network timing tool used throughout: timing waterfall graph
		and empty/primed cache performance graphs.
	Content served from a WAMP server to a browser client, both on the 
		on the same laptop, via localhost.
			
Metrics
	Time consumed (ms), data transferred (KB), and total requests (count).
	Overall goal is to reduce all metrics (lower is better).	
	Metrics reported to two significant digits, not considered below 
		this level.	

Performance measures before optimizations
	- about 2500 ms seconds to load the entire page
	- images from Lorempixel typically took about 1200 ms to load
	- empty cache transfer, about 2800 KB
			(50% JS, 33% images, 15% CSS and other, 51 total requests)
	- primed cache transfer, about 1300 KB
			(60% images, 15% CSS, 15% JS and other, 51 total requests)		
			
Optimizing steps taken
	Lorempixel images were downloaded and served from WAMP.
	
	Foundation and Foundation Icons CSS files were minimized.
		CSS from CDN provider was not minimized.
	
	Foundation JavaScript files were minimized.	
		Javascript from CDN provider was obtained in minimized form.
		My-javascript file was not minimized.
		
Performance measures after optimizations
	- about 1900 ms seconds to load the entire page
	- locally-served images typically took about 100 ms to load
	- empty cache transfer, about 2800 KB
			(50% JS, 33% images, 15% CSS and other, 36 total requests)
	- primed cache transfer, about 1300 KB
			(60% images, 15% CSS, 15% JS and other, 36 total requests)

Discussion
	Optimizations resulted in improvements, but not in all metrics. 
	Image loading time was greatly improved, total requests was
	improved, page loading time was slightly improved, but data 
	transfer time was not improved at all.
	
	Bulk of pre-optimization page loading time is attributed to image 
	linking to Lorempixel. Serving these images directly allowed most page 
	loading to complete by about 400 ms. Youtube content linking strung 
	total page load time out to about 1900 ms. Links to Youtube are 
	expensive in this metric.
	
	Naive minifications and consolidations via online tools such as
	http://javascript-minifier.com/ and http://cssminifier.com/ 
	broke CSS and JavaScript function. Because of this, effects of CSS 
	and script consolidations are not considered here, and minified
	Foundation CSS and script were obtained from the Zurb project. I 
	need to inquire further about proper use and limitations of these 
	tools.
	
	Serving images directly accounted for 12 requests eliminated.
	
	Testing for responsive design and testing for all target media and 
	browsers was not studied here.
	
	Using a WAMP server and an on-board network was an unrealistic 
	test model for a fully deployed website, because there were no 
	real network latencies and variances, and because the web server 
	and the browser client competed for the same CPU and disk I/O 
	resources. 
	
	It is noted that the on-site OGG video was of smaller size than its 
	MPG original, but that effect on optimization was not studied here.
